Glossary of Linux Terms


This appendix provides brief explanations of common terms used in the Linux and Unix
environments. These include technical terms, as well as conventions used within the Linux
community. Due to space limitations, this glossary is somewhat selective, but still should
prove a lasting reference as well as a helpful guide for those new to Linux.
    Cross-referenced terms are highlighted in italics.



Symbols
.
     Symbol that, in the context of file management, refers to the current directory.


..
     Symbol that, in the context of file management, refers to the parent directory of that
     currently being browsed.


/
     Symbol that, in the context of file management, refers to the root of the file system; also
     separates directories in a path listing.


~
     Symbol that, in the context of file management, refers to a user’s home directory.


|
     Pipe symbol; used at the command prompt to pipe output from one command to another.


>
     Symbol that, when used at the command prompt, indicates output should redirect into a file.




      <
          Symbol that, when used at the command prompt, indicates a command should accept input
          from a file (see redirect).


      #
          Symbol that, when it appears on the command prompt, usually indicates the user is currently
          logged in as root.


      $
          Symbol that, when it appears on the command prompt, usually indicates the user is currently
          logged in as an ordinary user. (Note that some versions of Linux/Unix use % or > instead of $.)


      ?
          Wildcard character indicating that any character can be substituted in its place.


      *
          Wildcard character indicating that zero or more characters can appear in its place.


      *nix
          Popular but unofficial way of describing the family tree that comprises Unix and its various
          clones, such as Linux and Minix.


      A
      administrator
          Another word for either the root user or one who has adopted that user’s powers temporarily.


      AIX
          IBM’s proprietary form of Unix that runs on the company’s proprietary hardware, as well
          as commodity hardware based around AMD and Intel processors. Nowadays, IBM is slowly
          deprecating AIX in favor of Linux.


      alias
          Method of creating a user-defined command that, when typed, causes another command to
          be run or a string to be expanded.


      Apache
          Popular Open Source web server software that runs on Unix, Linux, and other operating
          system platforms. Considered responsible in part for the rise in popularity of Linux in the
          late 1990s.


applet
    Small program that, in the context of the Ubuntu desktop, runs as part of a larger program
    and offers functions that complement the main program. The GNOME desktop incorporates
    several applets in its notification area.


APT
    Advanced Packaging Tool; the underlying system by which software is managed and installed
    on Ubuntu and Debian Linux systems. Shell commands beginning with apt, such as apt-get, are
    used to install new software from various repositories. Under Ubuntu, the Synaptic Package
    Manager program provides a GUI method of using APT.


archive
    Any file containing a collection of smaller files, compressed or otherwise (see also tar).


B
BASH
    Bourne Again SHell. The most common shell interpreter used under Linux and offered as
    default on many Linux systems.


binary executable
    Another way of referring to a program that has been compiled so that it can be used day-to-day.
    See also compile.


block device
    How the Linux kernel communicates with a device that sends and receives blocks of data;
    usually a hard disk or removable storage device. See also character device.


BSD Unix
    Berkeley Software Distribution Unix; form of Unix partially based on the original Unix
    source code but also incorporating recent developments. BSD is open source and free for all
    to use and share with practically no restrictions. There are various forms of BSD Unix, such
    as FreeBSD, NetBSD, and OpenBSD. BSD doesn’t use the Linux kernel, but it runs many of
    the same programs. Some of the programs offered within the Linux operating system come
    from BSD.


bzip2
    Form of file compression. Together with the older and less efficient gzip, it is a popular form
    of file compression under Linux and the equivalent to Zip compression under Windows.



      C
          Programming language in which much of the Linux kernel is written, as were later versions
          of Unix before it. C was created by some of the same people who created Unix, and its devel-
          opment mirrors that of Unix.


      C++
          Object-oriented programming language; originally designed to be an enhancement to C,
          but now seen as a popular alternative.


      C#
          Modern programming language, which uses similar syntax to C, created by Microsoft and
          re-created on Linux via the Mono project.


      character device
          How Linux refers to a device that sends/receives data asynchronously. For various technical
          reasons, this typically refers to the terminal display. See also block device.


      checksum
          Mathematical process that can be applied to a file or other data to create a unique number
          relative to the contents of that file. If the file is modified, the checksum will change, usually
          indicating that the file in question has failed to download correctly or has been modified in
          some way. The most common type of checksum program used under Linux is md5sum.


      client
          Shorthand referring to a computer that connects to a server.


      closed source
          The reverse of Open Source in which the source code is not available for others to see, share,
          or modify. See also proprietary.


      code
          See source code.


      command
          Input typed at the shell that performs a specific task, usually related to administration of the
          system and/or the manipulation of files.


      command-line prompt
          See shell.



commodity
  In the context of hardware, describes PC hardware usually based around Intel or AMD
  processors that can be bought off the shelf and used to create sophisticated computer systems
  (as opposed to buying specially designed hardware). One reason for Linux’s success is its
  ability to use commodity hardware.


community
  The general term for the millions of Linux users worldwide, regardless of what they use
  Linux for or their individual backgrounds. By using Linux, you automatically become part
  of the community.


compile
  The practice of creating a binary file from source code, usually achieved using the ./configure,
  make, make install series of commands and scripts.


config file
  Configuration file; any file that contains the list of settings for a program. Sometimes it’s
  necessary to edit config files by hand using programs like vi or Emacs, but often the program
  itself will write its config file according to the settings you choose.


copyleft
  The legal principle of protecting the right to share a creative work, such as a computer
  program, using a legally binding license. Copyleft also ensures future iterations of the work
  are covered in the same way.


cracker
  Someone who breaks into computer systems to steal data or cause damage. The term is not
  necessarily linked to Linux or Unix but was created by the community to combat the wide-
  spread use of hacker in this sense. The word hacker has traditionally defined someone who
  merely administers, programs, and generally enjoys computers.


cron
  Background service that schedules tasks to occur at certain times. It relies on the crontab file.


CUPS
  Common Unix Printing System; set of programs that work in the background to handle
  printing under Unix and Linux.


curses
  Library that lets software present a semigraphical interface at the shell, complete with menu
  systems and simple mouse control (if configured). The version of curses used under Linux
  and Unix is called ncurses.


      CVS
          Concurrent Versioning System; application that allows the latest version of software packages to
          be distributed over the Internet to developers and other interested parties.


      D
      daemon
          See service.


      Debian
          Voluntary organization that produces distributions of Free Software operating systems,
          including Linux. Because it is a nonprofit organization run by passionate Free Software
          advocates, it is considered the most ethically sound of all Linux outfits. Many distributions,
          including Ubuntu, use Debian as the basis for their software because of its claimed reliability
          and relative simplicity.


      dependency
          A way of referring to system files that a program requires in order to run. If the dependencies
          are not present during program installation, a program might refuse to install.


      device
          Linux shorthand describing something on your system that provides a function for the user
          or that the system requires in order to run. This usually refers to hardware, but it can also
          describe a virtual device that is created to provide access to a particular Linux function.


      directory
          What Windows refers to as a folder; areas on a hard disk in which files can be stored and
          organized.


      distribution
          A collection of software making up the Linux operating system; also known as a distro. The
          software is usually compiled by either a company or organization. A distribution is designed
          to be easy to install, administer, and use by virtue of it being an integrated whole. Examples
          include Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, Red Hat, and Debian.


      distro
          Shorthand for distribution.


      documentation
          Another way of describing written guides or instructions; can refer to online sources of help
          as well as actual printed documentation.



dpkg
    Shell command that can be used to administer software under Ubuntu and Debian. However,
    the APT system, which uses dpkg, is the preferred method of installing software.


E
Emacs
    Seminal text editor and pseudo-shell beloved by Unix aficionados; can be used for program-
    ming tasks, simple word processing, and much more. This editor has cultural significance as
    one of the core pieces of software offered by GNU Project, The. Emacs was originally developed
    principally by Stallman, Richard. See also vi.


environment
    Shorthand referring to a user’s unique Linux configuration, such as variables that tell the
    shell where programs are located.


F
FAT32
    File Allocation Table 32-bits; file system offered by Windows 98, Me, 2000, and XP. Linux can
    both read and write to FAT32 file systems. See also NTFS and VFAT.


Firefox
    Web browser program used under Ubuntu and produced by the Mozilla Foundation.


FLOSS
    Free, Libre, or Open Source Software; used within the community to describe all software or
    technology that, broadly speaking, adheres to the ethical approach of Open Source software
    and/or Free Software, as well as its legal guidelines.


FOSS
    Free or Open Source Software; alternative term for FLOSS.


free
    When used to describe software or associated areas of technology, “free” indicates that
    the project abides by the ethical (if not legal) guidelines laid down by GNU Project, The.
    It doesn’t indicate that the software is free in a monetary sense; its meaning is quite different
    from “freeware.”


      Free Software
          Software in which the source code—the original listing created by the programmer—is available
          for all to see, share, study, and adapt to their own needs. This differs from the concept of
          open source because the right of others to further modify the code is guaranteed via the GNU
          Public License (GPL) software license (or a compatible license). For various reasons, Free
          Software sometimes does not include the source code (although the software can still be
          legally decompiled), but this is rare.


      G
      gcc
          GNU Compiler Collection; programs used when creating binary executable files from
          source code.


      GID
          Group ID; numbering system used by the operating system to refer to a group.


      GIMP
          GNU Image Manipulation Program; high-powered image-editing program that runs under
          Linux, Unix, Windows and other operating systems. Often preceded by the definite article:
          “The GIMP.”


      GNOME
          GNU Network Object Model Environment; a GUI-based desktop environment used by
          Ubuntu, as well as several other distributions. It uses the GTK+ libraries. See also KDE.


      GNU
          GNU’s Not Unix; see GNU Project, The.


      GNU/Linux
          Another name for the operating system referred to as Linux. The name GNU/Linux gives
          credit to the vast quantity of GNU Project, The software that is added to the Linux kernel
          within a distro to make a complete operating system. As such, GNU/Linux is the preferred
          term of many Free Software advocates.


      GNU Project, The
          Organization created by Stallman, Richard in order to further the aims of Free Software and
          create the body of software that makes up the GNU operating system.



GNU Public License
    Software license principally created by Stallman, Richard in order to protect software source
    code against proprietary interests and ensure that it will always be shared. It does this by
    insisting that any source code covered by the GNU Public License (GPL) must remain licensed
    under the GPL, even after it has been modified or added to by others. The Linux kernel, as
    well as much of the software that runs on it, uses the GPL.


GPL
    See GNU Public License.


grep
    Global Regular Expression Print; powerful shell command that lets you search a file or other
    form of input using regular expressions. Because of the ubiquity of the grep program, many
    Linux and Unix users refer to searching as “grepping.” To “grep a file” is to search through it
    for a string.


group
    Collection of users under one heading (group name) to facilitate system administration.


GRUB
    GRand Unified Bootloader; boot manager program that offers a menu from which you can
    choose which operating system you wish to boot. It’s needed to load the kernel program and
    thereby initiate the Linux boot procedure.


GUI
    Graphical user interface; describes the software that provides a graphical system to display
    data and let you control your PC (usually via a mouse).


guru
    One who is experienced and knowledgeable about Linux/Unix and is willing to share his or
    her knowledge with others. In a perfect world, every newbie would have his or her own guru.


gzip
    One of the two preferred forms of file compression used under Linux. Files employing gzip
    compression usually have a .gz file extension. See also bzip2.


H
hack
    Ingenious and/or extremely efficient solution to a problem, particularly within the
    programming world.



      hacker
          Term used within the community to describe anyone who enjoys computers and possesses
          some skill therein, either in a professional capacity or as a hobby. This term is distinct from
          connotations of maliciously breaking into computers propagated by the media. See also cracker.


      host
          Shorthand referring to any computer that acts as a server to another computer. See also client.


      HP-UX
          Hewlett-Packard’s proprietary form of Unix designed to work on its own hardware platform.


      Hurd
          Kernel being developed by GNU Project, The. It’s not associated with the Linux kernel in
          any way.


      I
      info
          Source of documentation accessible from the shell; an alternative to the more established
          man page system. Also known as Texinfo.


      init
          The program that is automatically run after the kernel has finished loading, and therefore
          early in the boot procedure. It’s responsible for effectively starting the operating system.


      init.d
          Collection of startup scripts that make up the components of a run level. Under Ubuntu,
          these are found at /etc/init.d/. Symbolic links to selected init.d scripts are contained in
          folders within /etc/init.d that are named after run level numbers, such as rc0.d, rc1.d,
          rc2.d, and so on.


      initrd
          Initial RAM disk; system used by the Linux kernel to load modules that are essential for the
          kernel to be able to boot, such as disk controllers.


      inode
          Part of the usually invisible file system structure that describes a file, such as its ownership
          permissions or file size.




ipchains
    Now deprecated component of version 2.2 of the Linux kernel that allows the creation of
    network security setups, such as firewalls or port-forwarding arrangements. Note that some
    distros still prefer to use ipchains. See also iptables.


iptables
    Component of versions 2.4 and 2.6 of the Linux kernel that allows powerful network security
    setups. Chiefly used in the creation of firewalls, but can be used for more elementary arrange-
    ments such as network address translation (NAT) routers.


J
job
    How the BASH shell refers to a running program in order to facilitate administration by the user.


journaling
    File system technology in which integrity is maintained via the logging of disk writes.


K
KDE
    K desktop environment; GUI and set of additional programs used on various distros, such as
    Mandriva and a variation of Ubuntu called Kubuntu.


kernel
    Essential but ordinarily invisible set of programs that run the computer’s hardware and
    provide a platform on which to run software. In the Linux operating system, the kernel is
    also called Linux, after its creator, Torvalds, Linus.


kernel panic
    Error message that appears when the kernel program in Linux cannot continue to work. In
    other words, a polite way of indicating a crash or, more often, a problem arising from user
    misconfiguration. This is most often seen when booting up after making incorrect changes
    to the system.


kludge
    Community slang describing an inelegant way of making something work, usually not in a
    way that is generally accepted as being correct. Pronounced “kloodge.”


      Kubuntu
          Version of Ubuntu that substitutes the GNOME desktop environment for KDE. At the time of
          writing, it is less mature than the standard version of Ubuntu.


      L
      LAMP
          Acronym describing a series of programs that work together to provide a complete Linux-
          based web-hosting environment. Stands for Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Perl, PHP or Python
          (the last three in the list are scripting languages; see script).


      LGPL
          Lesser GPL; version of the GNU Public License (GPL) in which some use restrictions are
          slackened at the expense of various freedoms laid down by the main GPL. The LGPL is
          mostly used for library files.


      library
          General term referring to code that programs need to run and that, once in memory, is
          frequently accessed by many programs (leading to the phrase “shared library”). The most
          common and vital library is glibc (GNU C Library), created by GNU Project, The and the
          fundamental building block without which Linux could not operate. GNOME relies on the
          GTK+ libraries, among others.


      link
          File system method of assigning additional filenames to a file; also known as a “hard link.”
          See also symbolic link.


      Linux
          You mean you don’t know by now? Linux is what this book is all about. It is a kernel program
          created by Torvalds, Linus in 1991 to provide an inexpensive operating system for his computer,
          along with other components. These days, Linux is used to describe the entire operating
          system discussed in this book, although many argue (perhaps quite rightly) that this is
          inaccurate, and use the term GNU/Linux instead.


      local
          Shorthand referring to the user’s PC or a device directly attached to it (as opposed to remote).



localhost
    (1) Network name used internally by Linux and software to refer to the local computer,
    distinct from the network.

    (2) Default name given to a Linux-based PC when no other name is defined during installation.
    However, under Ubuntu, the name ubuntu is assigned if no name is defined by the user.


M
man page
    Documentation accessible from the shell that describes a command and how it should be used.


Minix
    Operating system that is a rough clone of Unix, created by Professor Andrew Tanenbaum.
    It was the inspiration for Linux.


module
    Program code that can be inserted or removed from the kernel in order to support particular
    pieces of hardware or provide certain kernel functions. Drivers under Windows perform the
    same function.


mount
    To add a file system so that it is integrated (and therefore accessible) within the main file
    system; applies to external file systems, such as those available across networks, as well as
    those on the local PC, such as the hard disk or CD/DVD-ROMs.


Mozilla Foundation
    Organization founded by Netscape to create open source Internet software, such as web
    browsers and e-mail clients; originally based on the Netscape source code. At the time of
    writing, it produces the Firefox and Camino web browsers, the Thunderbird e-mail and
    Usenet client, the Bugzilla bug-tracking software, as well as other programs.


MySQL
    Popular and powerful open source database application. See also LAMP.


N
newbie
    Term used to describe anyone who is new to Linux and therefore still learning the basics.
    It’s not a derogatory term! See also guru.



      NFS
          Network File System; reliable and established method of sharing files, printers, and other
          resources across a network of Unix-based operating systems. See also Samba.


      NTFS
          NT File System; file system offered by Windows NT, 2000, and XP. It can be read by Linux,
          but usually writing is prohibited because it is considered unsafe. See also FAT32.


      O
      OpenOffice.org
          Open Source office suite project created with the continuing input of Sun Microsystems and
          based on code Sun contributed to the Open Source community. Its commercial release is in
          the form of Star Office (although Star Office has several proprietary components added).


      open source
          (1) Method and philosophy of developing software whereby the source code—the original
          listing created by the programmer—is available for all to see. Note that open source is not
          the same as Free Software; describing software as open source doesn’t imply that the code
          can be shared or used by others (although this is often the case).

          (2) A community of users or any project that adheres to open-source values and/or practices.


      P
      partition
          Subdivision of a hard disk into which a file system can be installed.


      PID
          Process ID; the numbering system used to refer to a process.


      pipe
          Method of passing the output from one command to another for further processing. Piping
          is achieved within the shell by typing the | symbol.


      POSIX
          Portable Operating System Interface; various technical standards that define how Unix-like
          operating systems should operate and to which the Linux operating system attempts to adhere.



PPP
    Point-to-Point Protocol; networking technology that allows data transfer across serial connec-
    tions like telephone lines. In other words, it’s the technology that lets you connect to your
    Internet service provider using a modem.


process
    The way the system refers to the individual programs (or components of programs) running
    in memory.


proprietary
    Effectively, software for which a software license must be acquired, usually for a fee. This
    usually means the source code is kept secret, but it can also indicate that the source code is
    available to view but not to incorporate into your own projects or share with others.


R
Red Hat
    Well-known company that produces distributions of Linux.


redirect
    To send the output of a command into a particular file. This also works the other way around:
    the contents of a particular file can be directed into a command. Redirection is achieved
    within the shell using the left and right angle brackets (< and >), respectively.


regex
    See regular expression.


regular expression
    Powerful and complex method of describing a search string, usually when searching with
    tools such as grep (although regular expressions are also used when programming). Regular
    expressions use various symbols as substitutes for characters or to indicate patterns.


remote
    Indicates a computer or service that is available across a network, including but not limited
    to computers on the Internet (as opposed to local).



      root
          (1) The bottom of the Linux file system directory structure, usually indicated by a forward
          slash (/).

          (2) The user on some versions of Unix or Linux who has control over all aspects of hardware,
          software, and the file system.

          (3) Used to describe a user who temporarily takes on the powers of the root user (via the sudo
          command, for example).


      RPM
          Red Hat Package Manager; system used to install and administer programs under Red Hat,
          SUSE Linux and some other distributions. See also APT.


      RTFM
          Read the freaking manual/man page; exclamation frequently used online when a newbie
          asks for help without having undertaken basic research.


      run level
          Describes the current operational mode of Linux (typically, the services that are running).
          Run level 1 is single-user mode (a stripped-down system with minimal running services);
          run levels 2 through 5 provide a GUI; run level 6 is reboot mode (switching to it will cause the
          computer to terminate its processes and then reboot); run level 0 is shutdown (switching to
          it will cause the PC to shutdown).


      S
      Samba
          Program that re-creates under Unix or Linux the Microsoft SMB-based system of sharing
          files, printers, and other computer resources across a network. It allows Linux to become
          a file or printer server for Linux and Windows computers, and also allows a Linux client to
          access a Windows-based server.


      scalable
          Term describing the ability of a single computer program to meet diverse needs, regardless
          of the scale of the potential uses. The Linux kernel is described as being scalable because it
          can run supercomputers, as well as handheld computers and home entertainment devices.



script
  Form of computer program consisting of a series of commands in a text file. Most shells
  allow some form of scripting, and entire programming languages such as Perl are based
  around scripts. In the context of the Linux operating system, shell scripts are usually created
  to perform trivial tasks or ones that frequently interact with the user. Shell scripts have the
  advantage that they can be frequently and easily modified. The Linux boot process relies on
  several complex scripts to configure essential system functions such as networking and the
  GUI. See also init.


server
  (1) Type of computer designed to share data with other computers over a network.

  (2) Software that runs on a computer and is designed to share data with other programs on
  the same PC or with other PCs across a network.


service
  Background program that provides vital functions for the day-to-day running of Linux; also
  known as a daemon. Services are usually started when the computer boots up and as such
  are constituent parts of a run level.


shell
  Broadly speaking, any program that creates an operating environment in which you can
  control your computer. The GNOME desktop can be seen as a shell, for example. However,
  it’s more commonly understood within Unix and Linux circles as a program that lets you
  control the system using commands entered at the keyboard. In this context, the most common
  type of shell in use on Linux is BASH.


Shuttleworth, Mark
  Entrepreneurial South African businessman who, as a long-term Debian hacker, devised
  and financially supports Ubuntu via his company, Canonical Ltd.


SMB
  Server Message Block; network technology for sharing files, printers, and other resources.
  See also Samba.


Solaris
  Form of Unix sold by Sun Microsystems; runs on proprietary hardware systems as well as on
  commodity systems based on Intel and AMD processors.



      source code
        The original program listing created by a programmer. Most programs that you download
        are precompiled—already turned into binary executables ready for general use—unless you
        specifically choose to download and compile the source code of a program yourself.


      SSH
        Secure SHell; program that lets you access a Linux/Unix computer across the Internet. SSH
        encrypts data sent and received across the link.


      SSL
        Secure Sockets Layer; form of network data transfer designed to encrypt information for
        security purposes. It’s used online for certain web sites and also within Linux for certain
        types of secure data exchange.


      Stallman, Richard M.
        Legendary hacker who founded GNU Project, The and created the concept of copyleft, as well
        as the software license that incorporates it: the GNU Public License (GPL). See also Torvalds,
        Linus.


      standard error
        Linux and Unix shorthand for the error output provided by a command.


      standard input
        Linux and Unix shorthand for the device usually used to provide input to the shell. For the
        majority of desktop PC users, this refers to the keyboard.


      standard output
        Linux and Unix shorthand for the device usually used to display output from a command.
        For the majority of desktop PC users, this refers to the screen.


      string
        A word, phrase, or sentence consisting of letters, numbers, or other characters that is used
        within a program and is often supplied by the user.


      sudo
        Program that runs under Unix and Linux by which ordinary users are temporarily afforded
        administrator rights. Ubuntu relies on sudo as the exclusive way for users to administer
        the system.


      SVG
        Scalable Vector Graphics; vector graphics technology. SVG is actually an XML markup language
        designed to create 2D graphics, increasingly used for Linux desktop icons and web graphics.



swap
    Area of the hard disk that the Linux kernel uses as a temporary memory storage area. Desktop
    or server Linux differs from Windows in that it usually requires a separate hard disk partition
    in which to store the swap file.


symbolic link
    Type of file akin to a Windows shortcut. Accessing a symbolic link file routes the user to an
    actual file. See also link.


sysadmin
    Systems administrator; a way of describing the person employed within a company to
    oversee the computer systems. In such an environment, the sysadmin usually is the root
    user of the various computers.


System V
    Variant of Unix used as a foundation for modern forms of proprietary Unix.


T
tainted
    Describes a kernel that is using proprietary modules in addition to Open Source modules.
    Can also refer to insecure software.


tar
    Tape Archive; software able to combine several files into one larger file in order to back them
    up to a tape drive or simply transfer them across the Internet. Such files are usually indicated
    by a .tar file extension. Note that a tar file isn’t necessarily compressed; the bzip2 and gzip
    utilities must be used if this is desired.


TCP/IP
    Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol; standard protocol stack used by most
    modern operating systems to control and communicate across networks and also across the
    Internet (as opposed to NetBEUI, commonly available on older versions of Windows, and
    IPX/SPX, used on Novell’s NetWare operating system).


terminal
    Another word for shell.


TeX
    Method and set of programs for typesetting complex documents. Invented prior to word
    processors and desktop publishing software, and now considered a specialized tool for
    laying out scientific texts. An updated version of the program called LaTeX is also available.


      Torvalds, Linus
          Finnish programmer who, in 1991, created the initial versions of the Linux kernel. Since
          then, he has taken advantage of an international network of volunteers and staff employed
          by various companies who help produce the kernel. Torvalds himself contributes and over-
          sees the efforts.


      tty
          TeleTYpewriter; shorthand referring to underlying Linux virtual devices that allow programs
          and users to access the kernel and thereby run programs.


      Tux
          The name of the penguin character that is the Linux mascot. The original Tux graphic was
          drawn by Larry Ewing.


      U
      Ubuntu
          Linux distribution with several unique characteristics. Ubuntu is designed primarily for
          desktop use, although several server versions are available. It is intended for use by individuals
          in any location in the world, so it has strong multiple language support. It’s run by the
          Ubuntu Foundation, which is financially backed by Shuttleworth, Mark. Each release is
          guaranteed to be supported for 18 months (5 years in the case of server releases).


      Ubuntu Foundation
          Organization set up by Shuttleworth, Mark and his company, Canonical, Ltd., to administer
          and provide support for the Ubuntu distribution of Linux.


      UID
          User ID; numbering system used by the operating system to refer to a user.


      Unix
          Seminal operating system created as a research project in 1969 by Kenneth Thompson and
          Dennis Ritchie at Bell Labs (later AT&T). Because it was initially possible to purchase the
          source code for a fee, subsequent revisions were enhanced by a variety of organizations and
          went on to run many mainframe and minicomputer systems throughout the 1980s, 1990s,
          and up to the present. Nowadays, Unix is fragmented and exists in a variety of different versions.
          Perhaps most popular is its Open Source rendition, BSD Unix, which has seen many devel-
          opments since the source code was first released. This means that BSD Unix no longer exists
          but has instead diversified into a number of separate projects. Proprietary versions are also
          available, including Solaris, HP-UX, and AIX.



user
     The way the operating system refers to anyone who accesses its resources. A user must first
     have a user account set up, effectively giving that user his or her own private space on the
     system. In addition to actual human users, an average Linux system has many other user
     accounts created to let programs and services go about their business. These are usually not
     seen by human users.


V
variable
     A changeable value that stores a certain data type (such as a number, date, or string), remem-
     bering it for future reference by the system or script it is defined by. Variables defined by and
     for the Linux kernel are vital to it.


verbose
     Command option that will cause it to return more detailed output (or, in some cases, to
     return actual output if the command is otherwise “quiet”); usually specified by adding the
     -v command option.


VFAT
     Virtual File Allocation Table; technical name of Microsoft’s FAT file system offered under
     Windows and also on removable storage devices such as flash memory cards.


vi
     Arcane text editor and pseudo-shell beloved by Unix aficionados that can be used for
     creation of text files or for creating programs. Traditionally, Unix users either love or hate vi;
     some prefer Emacs.


W
Wine
     Short for Wine Is Not an Emulator; software that re-creates the Windows Application
     Programming Interface (API) layer within Linux and lets users run Windows programs.


workspace
     X terminology referring to a GUI desktop.



      X
      X
          Short for X Window; software that controls the display and input devices, thereby providing
          a software foundation on top of which desktop managers like GNOME are able to run.


      X11
          Version 11 of the X software, currently in use on most desktop Linux systems.


      XFree86 Project
          Organization that creates X software. At one time, every distribution of Linux used XFree86
          software, but most now use similar software from the X.org organization.


      xinetd
          The service responsible for starting various network servers on the computer.


      XMMS
          Audio player program.


      X.org
          Organization that produces the X Window software and, in particular, a set of programs
          called X11. X11 is used on most modern distributions of Linux. It is backed by a number
          of Unix and Linux industry leaders.


      xterm
          Simple program that allows you to run a shell under X. This program has the advantage of
          being available on most Linux systems that offer a GUI.



BASH Command Index


T  his appendix provides a whistle-stop tour of commands that can be used at the BASH shell.
This is a highly selective listing, intended to provide a guide to commands that see day-to-day
use on average desktop systems. In a similar fashion, although some command options are
listed, they’re strictly limited to those that receive regular deployment.
     The descriptions of each command are deliberately simple. Note that the quantity of space
a command is given is not an indication of its importance or usefulness. To this end, commands in
the list with an asterisk after their name offer far more than hinted at by its brief description
hints. In such cases, I strongly advise that you refer to the command’s man page for more
information.
     Various conventions are used in the list:

    • You should substitute your own details wherever italicized words appear.

    • Commands that can and might be run by ordinary users are preceded with a dollar sign ($).

    • Commands that require root privileges (the use of sudo) are preceded with a hash symbol (#).

   Commands that present dangers to the system through misuse are clearly marked. Such
commands should not be used without research into the command’s usage and function.


Command                 Description                   Typical Command Options    Examples of Use
$ alias                 Create or display                                        alias list=ls
                        command aliases
$ alsamixer             Alter audio volume levels                                alsamixer
$ apropos               Search man pages for                                     apropos "word or
                        specified words/phrases                                  phrase"






Command             Description                 Typical Command Options     Examples of Use
$ apt-cache         Search, query, and          search: Search for          apt-cache search
                    otherwise manipulate        specified package           packagename
                    the APT database cache      (regexes may be used;
                    (see apt-get)               see Chapter 15)
                                                showpkg: Show
                                                information about
                                                specified package
                                                depends: Show package
                                                dependencies of specified
                                                package, and show other
                                                packages that can meet
                                                that dependency
# apt-get           Multifunction tool use to   install: search for and     apt-get install
                    install, remove, and        install specified package   packagename
                    otherwise administer        from repositories (as
                    software packages,          specified in /etc/apt/
                    according to the APT        sources.list)
                    database
                                                update: Update or build
                                                package database by
                                                contacting package
                                                repositories
                                                upgrade: Attempt to
                                                upgrade all current
                                                installed packages with
                                                new versions
                                                dist-upgrade: Attempt
                                                to upgrade all currently
                                                installed packages,
                                                automatically and
                                                aggressively resolving
                                                package conflicts; often
                                                used to upgrade entire
                                                distro to new version
                                                remove: Opposite of
                                                install; removes packages
                                                clean: Remove any
                                                old package installation
                                                files that are stored on
                                                hard disk
                                                -f: Attempt to fix broken
                                                package dependencies
                                                (used with install
                                                or remove)
                                                --force-yes: Override
                                                any errors and thereby
                                                bypass apt-get’s
                                                protective measures.
                                                Dangerous option—
                                                use with care!




Command          Description                      Typical Command Options         Examples of Use
$ bzip2          Compress specified file          -d: Decompress                  bzip2 myfile
                 (replaces original file with     specified file
                 compressed file and gives
                                                  -k: Don’t delete
                 it .bz2 file extension)
                                                  original file
                                                  -t: Test; do a dry run
                                                  without writing any data
$ bzip2recover   Attempt recovery of                                              bzip2recover
                 specified damaged                                                myfile.tar.bz2
                 .bz2 file
$ cal            Display calendar for                                             cal 4 2005
                 current month (or specified
                 month/year)
$ cat            Display a file on screen or                                      cat myfile
                 combine and display two
                 files together
$ cd             Change to specified                                              cd /usr/bin
                 directory
$ cdparanoia *   Convert CD audio tracks          -B: Batch mode; convert         cdparanoia –S 8 –B
                 to hard disk files               all tracks to individual
                                                  files
                                                  -S: Set CD read speed
                                                  (2, 4, 8, 12, and so on;
                                                  values relate to CD-drive
                                                  spin speed; used to avoid
                                                  read errors)
# cdrecord *     Burn audio or CD-R/RW            -dev=: Specify the drive’s cdrecord dev=0,0,0
                 data discs (the latter usually   device number (can be      –speed=16 -v
                 based on an ISO image;           discovered by running      myfile.iso
                 see mkisofs)                     cdrecord with the scanbus
                                                  option)
                                                  --scanbus: Scan to see
                                                  which CD-R/RW drives
                                                  are present and return
                                                  device numbers
                                                  -speed=: Specify the write
                                                  speed (2, 4, 6, 8, and so on)
                                                  -v: Verbose output;
                                                  obligatory for feedback
                                                  on cdrecord’s progress
# cfdisk *       DANGEROUS! Menu-based                                            cfdisk /dev/hda
                 disk-partitioning program
# chgrp          Change group ownership           -R: Recursive; apply            chgroup mygroup
                 of a file/directory              changes to subdirectories       myfile



Command                Description                    Typical Command Options       Examples of Use
$ chmod                Change permissions of a        -R: Recursive; apply          chmod a+rw myfile
                       file/directory (where a=all,   to subdirectories
                       u=user, g=group; and
                                                      --reference=: Copy
                       r=read, w=write,
                                                      permissions from
                       x=executable)
                                                      specified file
$ chown                Change file ownership to       -R: Recursive; apply to       chown username
                       specified username             subdirectories                myfile1
# chroot               Change the root of the file                                  chroot /home/
                       system to the specified path                                 mydirectory
# chvt                 Switch to the specified                                      chvt 3
                       virtual terminal (equivalent
                       of holding down Ctrl+Alt
                       and pressing F1–F6)
 $ clear               Clears terminal screen and                                   clear
                       places cursor at top
$ cp                   Copy files                     -r: Recursive; copy           cp myfile1 directory/
                                                      subdirectories and the
                                                      files therein
                                                      -s: Create symbolic link
                                                      instead of copying
$ crontab              Edit or display the user’s     -e: Edit the crontab file     crontab -e
                       crontab file (scheduled        (create/amend)
                       tasks)
                                                      -l: List crontab entries
                                                      -r: Delete the crontab file
                                                      -u: Specify a user and edit
                                                      their crontab file
$ date                 Display the date and time                                    date
$ df                   Display free disk space        -h: Human readable;           df -h
                       within file system             display sizes in KB,
                                                      MB, GB, and TB, as
                                                      appropriate
                                                      -l: Restrict to local file
                                                      systems, as opposed to
                                                      network mounts
$ diff                 Display differences            -a: Consider all files        diff myfile1 myfile2
                       between specified files        text files (don’t halt
                                                      when asked to compare
                                                      binary files)
                                                      -i: ignore lowercase and
                                                      uppercase differences
$ diff3                Display differences                                          diff3 myfile1
                       between three specified                                      myfile2 myfile3
                       files
$ dig                  Look up IP address of                                        dig mysite.com
                       specified domain



Command              Description                        Typical Command Options       Examples of Use
$ dmesg              Display kernel message log                                       dmesg
# dosfsck *          Check and repair MS-DOS– -a: Repair without asking               dosfsck -rv /dev/hda4
                     based file hard disk      user for confirmation
                     partition (see also fsck)
                                               -r: Repair file system
                                               asking user for
                                               confirmation when two
                                               or more repair methods
                                               are possible
                                                        -v: Verbose; display more
                                                        information
# dpkg               Install, remove, and               -i: Install specified         dpkg –i
                     otherwise administer               package                       packagename.deb
                     local installation packages
                                                        -r: Remove (uninstall)
                     (on your hard disk);
                                                        specified package
                     see also apt-get
                                                        -I: Show info about
                                                        specified package
                                                        --ignore-depends=
                                                        packagename.deb:
                                                        Don’t halt on package
                                                        dependency issues
                                                        (dangerous!)
# dpkg-reconfigure   Reconfigure an already                                           dpkg-reconfigure
                     installed package                                                packagename
$ du                 Show sizes of files and            -h: Human readable;           du -h /home/myuser
                     folders in kilobytes               produce output in MB,
                                                        GB, and TB
                                                        -s: Summary; display
                                                        totals only for directories
                                                        rather than for individual
                                                        files
$ eject              Eject a removable                  -t: Close an already          eject /media/dvd-rom
                     storage disk                       open tray
$ ex *               Start a simple text-editor                                       ex myfile.txt
                     program used principally
                     within shell scripts
$ exit               Log out of shell                                                 exit
                     (end session)
$ fdformat           Low-level format a floppy                                        fdformat /dev/fd0
                     disk (this won’t create a file
                     system; see also mkfs)
# fdisk *            DANGEROUS! Hard-disk               -l: List partition table      fdisk /dev/hda
                     partitioning program
$ fg                 Brings job running in                                            fg 1
                     background to foreground
$ file               Display information about                                        file myfile
                     specified file, such as its type



Command                Description                   Typical Command Options        Examples of Use
$ find *               Find files by searching       -maxdepth: Specify the   find -name "myfile"
                       directories (starting in      number of subdirectories
                       current directory)            levels to delve into,
                                                     starting from 1 (current
                                                     directory)
                                                     -name: Specify name of
                                                     file to search for
                                                     -type: Specify file types to
                                                     be returned; -type d
                                                     returns directories and
                                                     -type f returns only files
$ free                 Display information about     -m: Show figures in MB         free -m
                       memory usage
                                                     -t: Total the columns at
                                                     bottom of table
# fsck *               Check file system for                                        fsck /dev/hda1
                       errors (usually run from
                       rescue disc)
$ ftp *                FTP program for                                              ftp ftp.mysite.com
                       uploading/downloading
                       to remote sites
$ fuser                Show which processes          -v: Verbose; detailed          fuser -v myfile
                       are using a particular file   output
                       or file system
$ grep *               Search specified file         -i: Ignore uppercase and       grep "phrase I want
                       for specified text string     lowercase differences          to find" myfile.txt
                       (or word)
                                                     -r: Recursive; delve into
                                                     subdirectories (if
                                                     applicable)
                                                     -s: Suppress error
                                                     messages about
                                                     inaccessible files and
                                                     other problems
# groupadd             Create new group                                             groupadd mygroup
# groupdel             Delete specified group                                       groupdel mygroup
$ groups               Display groups the                                           groups myuser
                       specified user belongs to
$ gzip                 Compress files and            -d: Decompress                 gzip myfile
                       replace original file with    specified file
                       compressed version
                                                     -v: Verbose; display
                                                     degree of compression
# halt                 Initiate shutdown             -p: Power off system           halt -p
                       procedure, ending all         at end of shutdown
                       processes and unmounting      procedure
                       all disks




Command        Description                         Typical Command Options      Examples of Use
# hdparm *     DANGEROUS! Tweak or                                              hdparm /dev/hda
               view hard disk settings
$ head         Print topmost lines of text         -n: Specify number of        head myfile.txt
               files (default is first 10 lines)   lines (such as -n 5)
$ help         Display list of common                                           help
               BASH commands
$ history      Display history file (a list of                                  history
               recently used commands)
$ host         Query DNS server based              -d: Verbose; return more     host 82.211.81.166
               on specified domain name            information
               or IP address
                                                   -r: Force name server
                                                   to return its cached
                                                   information rather than
                                                   query other authoritative
                                                   servers
$ hostname     Display localhost-style                                          hostname
               name of computer
$ id           Display username and                                             id myuser
               group info of specified
               user (or current user if
               none specified)
# ifconfig *   Display or configure                down: Disable interface ifconfig eth0
               settings of a network               (used at end of command 192.168.0.10 netmask
               interface (assign an IP             chain)                  255.255.0.0 up
               address, subnet mask,
                                                   netmask: Specify a
               and activate/deactivate it)
                                                   subnet mask
                                                   up: Enable interface
                                                   (used at end of
                                                   command chain)
$ info *       Display info page for                                            info command
               specified command
# init         Change current run level                                         init 1
$ jobs         Display list of jobs                                             jobs
               running in background
$ kill         Kill specified process                                           kill 1433
$ killall      Kill process(es) that have          -i: Confirm before           killall processnumber
               specified name(s)                   killing process
                                                   -v: Verbose; report if and
                                                   when successful
$ last         Display details of recent                                        last
               logins, reboots, and
               shutdowns
$ ldd          Display system files                                             ldd /usr/bin/program
               (libraries) required by
               specified program



Command                Description                     Typical Command Options         Examples of Use
$ less                 Interactively scroll            -q: Quiet; disable beeps        less myfile.txt
                       through a text file             when end of file is
                                                       reached or other error
                                                       encountered
                                                       -i: Ignore case; make all
                                                       searches case-insensitive
                                                       unless uppercase letters
                                                       are used
$ ln                   Create links to specified       -s: Create symbolic link        ln -s myfile1 myfile2
                       files, such as symbolic links   (default is hard link)
$ lpr                  Print file (send it to the      -V: Verbose; print              lpr myfile.txt
                       printer spool/queue)            information about
                                                       progress of print job
$ lpstat               Display print queue                                             lpstat
$ ls                   List directory                  -a: List all files, including   ls -h mydirectory
                                                       hidden files
                                                       -d: List only directory
                                                       names rather than their
                                                       contents
                                                       -h: Human readable;
                                                       print figures in KB, MB,
                                                       GB, and TB
                                                       -l: Long list; include
                                                       all details, such as file
                                                       permissions
                                                       -m: Show as comma-
                                                       separated list
# lsmod                Display currently loaded                                        lsmod
                       kernel modules
$ lsof                 Display any files               -u: Limit results to files      lsof -u username
                       currently in use                used by specified user
$ man                  Display specified                                               man command
                       command’s manual
$ md5sum               Display MD5 checksum                                            md5sum myfile
                       (normally used to confirm
                       a file’s integrity after
                       download)
# mkfs *               DANGEROUS! Create               -t: Specify type of             mkfs -t vfat /dev/fd0
                       specified file system on        file system
                       specified device (such as
                       a floppy disk)



Command       Description                    Typical Command Options     Examples of Use
$ mkisofs *   Create ISO image file from     -o: Options; this must  mkisofs -o
              specified directory (usually   appear after command to isoimage.iso -R -J -v
              for burning to disc with       indicate that command   mydirectory
              cdrecord)                      options follow
                                             -apple: Use Mac OS
                                             extensions to make
                                             disc readable on Apple
                                             computers
                                             -f: Follow symbolic links
                                             and source actual files
                                             -J: Use Joliet extensions
                                             (make ISO compatible
                                             with Windows)
                                             -R: Use Rock Ridge
                                             extensions (preferred
                                             Linux CD-ROM file
                                             system)
                                             -v: Verbose; display more
                                             information (-vv for even
                                             more info)
# modinfo     Display information                                        modinfo modulename
              about kernel module
# modprobe    Insert specified module        -k: Set module’s             modprobe modulename
              into the kernel, as well as    autoclean flag so it will be
              any others it relies on        removed from memory
                                             after inactivity
                                             -r: Remove specified
                                             module as well as any it
                                             relies on to operate
$ more        Interactively scroll through                               more myfile.txt
              text file (similar to less)
# mount *     Mount specified file system -o: Specify command            mount /dev/hda4 /mnt
              at specified location       options, such as rw to
                                          allow read/write access;
                                          various types of file
                                          systems have unique
                                          commands
$ mv          Move (or rename) specified -b: Back up files               mv myfile
              files and/or directories   before moving                   mydirectory/
                                             -v: Display details of
                                             actions carried out
$ netstat *   Show current network                                       netstat -a
              connections



Command                Description                     Typical Command Options      Examples of Use
$ nice                 Run specified command           -n: Specify priority,        nice -n 19
                       with specified priority         ranging from the highest
                                                       priority of -20, to 19,
                                                       which is the lowest
                                                       priority
$ nohup                Run specified command                                        nohup command
                       and continue to run it,
                       even if user logs out
$ passwd               Change user’s password                                       passwd
$ ping                 Check network                   -w: Exit after specified     ping mydomain.com
                       connectivity between            number of seconds
                       local machine and               (such as -w 5)
                       specified address
$ printenv             Display all environment                                      printenv
                       variables for current user
$ ps *                 Display currently               a: List all processes        ps aux
                       running processes               (note that command
                                                       options don’t require
                                                       preceding dash)
                                                       f: Display ownership
                                                       of processes using tree-
                                                       style graphics
                                                       u: Limit results to
                                                       processes running
                                                       for and started by current
                                                       user
                                                       x: Include processes
                                                       in results not started by
                                                       user but running with
                                                       the user ID
$ pwd                  Display current directory                                    pwd
# reboot               Reboot computer                                              reboot
$ renice               Change a process’s priority                                  renice 19 10704
                       while it’s running (see nice)
$ rm                   Delete single or multiple       -r: Recursive; delete        rm -rf mydirectory
                       files and/or directories        specified directories
                                                       and any subdirectories
                                                       -f: Force; don’t prompt
                                                       for confirmation before
                                                       deleting (use with care!)
# rmmod                Delete module from kernel                                    rmmod modulename
# route *              Add and create (or view)                                     route add default gw
                       entries in routing table                                     192.168.1.1
                       (see ifconfig)
$ runlevel             Display current run level                                    runlevel



Command         Description                    Typical Command Options       Examples of Use
$ screen *      Program that runs              -ls: Display list of          screen
                pseudo shell that is           currently running
                kept alive regardless of       screen sessions
                current user login
                                               -R: Reattach to already
                                               running screen session
                                               or start new one if none
                                               available
$ sftp *        Secure Shell FTP; like FTP                                   sftp
                but running over an ssh                                      username@192.168.1.14
                connection (see ssh)
$ shred         Overwrite data in a file       -u: Delete file in addition   shred -fv myfile
                with gibberish, thereby        to overwriting
                making it irrecoverable
                                               -v:Verbose; show details
                                               of procedure
                                               -f: Force permissions to
                                               allow writing if necessary
$ sleep         Pause input for the                                          sleep 10m
                specified period of time
                (where s=seconds,
                m=minutes, h=hours,
                d=days)
$ smbclient *   FTP-style program                                            smbclient //192.168.
                with which you can log                                       1.1/
                in to a SMB (Windows)-
                based file share
$ sort          Sort entries in the                                          sort myfile.txt -o
                specified text file (default                                 sorted.txt
                is ASCII sort)
$ ssh *         Log in to remote computer                                    ssh username@192.168.
                using secure shell                                           1.15
$ startx        Start GUI session (if GUI                                    startx
                isn’t already running)
$ su            Temporarily log in as          -: Adopt user’s               su
                specified user; log in as      environment variables,
                root if no user specified      such as $PATH
                (provided root account is
                activated)
$ sudo          Execute specified                                            sudo command
                command with root
                privileges
$ tac           Display specified text file                                  tac myfile.txt
                but in reverse (from last to
                first line)
$ tail          Display final lines of         -n: Specify number of         tail myfile.txt
                specified text file            lines to display (such
                                               as -n4)



Command                Description                      Typical Command Options     Examples of Use
$ tar *                Combine specified files          -c: Create new archive      tar -zcf
                       and/or directories into one                                  myfile.tar.gz
                                                        -j: Use bzip2 in order
                       larger file, or extract from                                 mydirectory
                                                        to compress (or
                       such a file
                                                        decompress) files
                                                        -f: Specifies filename
                                                        (must be last in chain of
                                                        command options)
                                                        -r: Add files to existing
                                                        archive
                                                        -x: Extract files from
                                                        existing archive
                                                        -z: Use gzip to compress
                                                        (or decompress) files
$ tee                  Display piped output and                                     ls -lh| tee
                       also save it to specified file                               listing.txt
$ top *                Program that both displays                                   top
                       and lets the user
                       manipulate processes
$ touch                Give specified file current                                  touch myfile
                       time and date stamp; if it
                       doesn’t exist, create a zero-
                       byte file with that name
$ tracepath            Discover and                                                 tracepath
                       display network path                                         192.168.1.20
                       to another host
$ umask                Set default permissions                                      umask u=rwx,g=r,o=
                       assigned to newly
                       created files
# umount               Unmount a file system                                        umount /media/cdrom
# useradd              Add new user                     -m: Create home             useradd -m username
                                                        directory for user
# userdel              Delete all mention of user       -r: Remove user’s           userdel -r username
                       in system configuration          home directory
                       files (effectively deleting
                       the user, although files
                       owned by the user might
                       remain)
$ unalias              Remove specified alias           -a: Remove all aliases      unalias command
                                                        (use with care!)
$ uname                Display technical                -a: Display all basic       uname -a
                       information about current        information
                       system
$ unzip                Unzip a Windows-                 -l: Display archive         unzip myfile.zip
                       compatible Zip file              content but don’t
                                                        actually unzip



Command     Description                   Typical Command Options     Examples of Use
$ uptime    Display uptime for system,                                uptime
            as well as CPU load average
            and logged-in users
$ vi *      Text editor program                                       vi
$ wc        Count the number of words                                 wc myfile.txt
            in a file
$ whatis    Display one-line summary                                  whatis command
            of specified command
$ whereis   Display information on        -b: Return information      whereis -b command
            where a binary command        only about binary
            is located, along with its    programs
            source code and man page
            (if applicable)
$ xhost     Configure which               +: When followed by        xhost +
            users/systems can run         a username and/or
            programs on the X server      system name, gives the
                                          user/system permission
                                          to run programs on the
                                          X server; when used on its
                                          own, lets any user/system
                                          use the X server
                                          -: Opposite of +
$ xinit     Start elementary GUI                                      xinit
            session (when not already
            running a GUI)
$ zip       Create Windows-compatible -r: Recursive; includes         zip -r myfile.zip
            compressed Zip files      all subdirectories and          mydirectory
                                      files therein
                                          -u: Updates Zip with
                                          specified file
                                          -P: Encrypts Zip with
                                          specified password
                                          -v: Verbose; display more
                                          information
                                          -#: Set compression level
                                          (from 0, which is no
                                          compression, to 9, which
                                          is highest)
$ zipgrep   Searches inside Zip files                                 zipgrep "search
            for specified text string                                 phrase" myfile.zip
